# studbud

# Self Reflection

Looking back over this entire project I never thought I would be able to create a study app with the functionality, design aesthetic and overall capabilities my app presents. I remember, when I submitted my web app pitch a while ago and I was showing my friends the designs, people would say "there is no way you are going to be able to convert that so something functional"... but after many, many hours of debugging and developing I managed to pull through and create something I am extremely proud of. Utilising both my peers feedback, dev roadmap, functionality speclist and my designs created on Adobe XD throughout the duration of this project, I refined the design and boosted the features of Studbud. For instance, as a result of my peers feedback I altered the covey quadrants page to include a project over statistic element on the dashboard which uses various algorithms to calculate the completion rate and projects 'days left to complete' (based on the due date set) of the currently selected overview project. To further this, I also refined the music player app to include a feature which displays liked songs selected by the user, instead of enabling them to add songs of their own. The reason for this decision adjustment was due to the over-complexity and unimportantce of having users add their own songs to the app as one of my peers mentioned to me, "most people will just use spotify or apple music as it has everything they need". Overall, sitting here today at 9:41pm  (05/06/2022), writing this reflection I am overwhelmly proud of my effort to develop Studbud and absolutely love the way it has turned out.

# Succcesses

Throughout this journey, I can remember looking at each new section of Studbud from my designs and thinking, "how in the world am I going to code this?", but which each new element I built and designed it got easier and easier. I remember the moment I finally got my tasklist to work and I can safely say that was not only the start of something amazing for this project but also the most exciting and rewarding feeling I have ever felt from developing. I believe that from that moment onwards, my motivation and resilience in building this app exponentially increased provoking me to develop it to the standard you see before you. Several other major successes I had with this app was the sophisticated algorithm I created and developed to display tasks on the covey quadrants, utilising not only the priority associated with each task, but also the amount of days left to complete each task based on today's date and the task's selected due date. I think despite the success with the tasklist, my second favourite thing was the covey quadrants. Furthermore, I am also extremely proud of the unique feature I added to Studbud called 'focus'. Focus mode is selected on/off in the top navbar using the lightning icon. This feature, which was guided by peer feedback throughout not only this project but the web app pitch as well, enables users to hone in on only the important features of the dashboard (only at the moment), created an easy on the eye and smart system to maximise organisation and time-management. Overall, whilst there were many tough challenges, the success in this project undeniably outweights the challenges presented. 

# Challenges

Throughout the duration of this web app development project I experienced several challenges, specifically the tasklist. Whilst, I completely understood that the features and capabilities of the task list and numerous other elements in the design were unneccessary, I wanted to build something which had a significant foundation to be developed further. However, due to the challenge I set myself to create these capabilities I found myself numerous times sitting and staring at my computer for hours wondering, 'how I messed up some code' or,'where do I even start to fix this error'. To be more specific, my tasklist allows users to create tasks which are then stored in projects they create... a foundational algorithm for Studbud. However, writing an algorithm to store and return nested arrays was definitely the hardest challenge I faced. After literally 30 hours working on the tasklist and with the guidance of my tutor Sam and the StackOverflow I managed to finally get it to work. Whilst, I faced many challenges in the development of Studbud, I also faced many challenges in my time-management and organisational skills. I knew from the beginning that developing an app takes a lot of time if you want it to be the way you imagined, but I never thought it would take this much effort. I know that there are definitely features that don't work 100%, for instance the due dates on the Calender or the achievement element, but I am very proud of the way the rest everything else came together. 

# Moving Forward

Reflecting on the development process of Studbud, I can definiteyl say I have more than enjoyed this project. The development skills I have learnt are amazing and definitely something I use going forward... mostly likely to continue developing this app into something of a professional standard. I know that with a few more weeks of work on it, I would have been able to make it to a professional standard, however I couldn't be prouder of the standard to which I achieved. From time-management skills, to development skills to greater organisational skills I belive my foundations have risen exponentially and I wanted to thank my tutor Sam and the rest of the web design tutors for pushing students like myself to create better and more sophisticated applications.

# Thank You's

I wanted to add an additional section to my reflection which was dedicated to everyone that helped guide me. First of all, I wanted to say a huge thank you to my tutor Sam for responding to my billions of questions and providing me helpful insights into how I could better my code, I definitely couldn't have got this far without you. I also wanted to say a big thank you to all the other tutors that provided me with any guideance, thank you so much. Hopefully, I can continue to develop this project into something real and fun for students to use as I believe that it is almost there. 

---

Signing Off, 

Matt Gordon. 




